# Policy

Policies are structured YAML files that provide the human readable context for
an audit. Drutiny scans for these files and looks for files ending in `.policy.yml`.
The convention is to store these files in a directory called `Policy`.

## Policy structure

### title (required)
The human readable name and title of a given policy. The title should accurately
indicate what the audit is for in as few words as possible. An expanded context
can be given in the **description** field.

```yaml
title: Shield module is enabled
```

### name (required)
The machine readable name of the policy. This is used to call the policy in
`policy:audit` and to list in profiles. The naming convention is to use camel
case and to delineate namespaces with colons.

```yaml
name: Drupal:ShieldEnabled
```

### class (required)
The audit class used to assess the policy. The entire namespace should be given
including a leading forward slash. If this class does not exist, Drutiny will
fail when attempting to use this policy.

```yaml
class: \Drutiny\Audit\Drupal\ModuleEnabled
```

### type (default: audit)
Policies can be of two types: audit (the default) or data.

Audit types evaluate the target for a pass/fail result. Data types simply
collect and display the data.

This property helps define how to best display the policy in an HTML report.

```yaml
type: data
```

### description (required)
A human readable description of the policy. The description should be informative
enough for a human to read the description and be able to interpret the audit
findings.

This field is interpreted as [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax)

```yaml
description: |
  Using the pipe (|) symbol in yaml,
  I'm able to provide my description
  across multiple lines.
```

### success (required)
The success message to provide if the audit returns successfully.
This field supports [mustache templates](https://mustache.github.io/mustache.5.html)
to display parameters given at runtime or tokens generated by the audit.

This field is interpreted as [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax)

```yaml
success: The module {{module_name}} is enabled.
```

### failure (required)
If the audit fails or is unable to complete due to an error, this message will
be displayed. This field supports [mustache templates](https://mustache.github.io/mustache.5.html)
to display parameters given at runtime or generated by the audit.

This field is interpreted as [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax)

```yaml
failure: {{module_name}} is not enabled.
```

### remediation (required)
This text is displayed to advise the reader how to go about remediating the policy.
This field supports [mustache templates](https://mustache.github.io/mustache.5.html)
to display parameters given at runtime or tokens generated by the audit.

This field is interpreted as [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax)

```yaml
remediation: |
  Please enable the {{module_name}} module using drush
  `drush en {{module_name}} -y`
```

### parameters
Parameters allow a policy to define values for variables used by the Audit. They
are also used in `policy:info` to inform on the parameters available to customize.
A parameter consists of three key value pairs:

- **default** (required): The actual value to pass through to the audit.
- **type**: The data type of the parameter. Used to advise profile builders on how to use the parameter.
- **description**: A description of what the parameter is used for. Used to advise profile builders.

```yaml
parameters:
  module_name:
    default: shield
    type: string
    description: The name of the module to check is enabled.
```

### tags
The tags key is simply a mechanism to allow policies to be grouped together.
For example "Drupal 7" or "Performance".

```yaml
tags:
  - Drupal 7
  - Performance
```

### depends
Policies can depend on other policies meaning that all policies specified in this
field **must** pass successfully for this policy to pass.

```yaml
depends:
  - fs:largeFiles
  - Drupal:SyslogEnabled
```

### severity
Not all policies are of equal importance. Severity allows you to specify how
critical a failure or warning is. Possible values in order of importance:

* none (only option for `data` type policies)
* low
* normal (default)
* high
* critical

```yaml
severity: 'high'
```

## Using Tokens in message renders.
Tokens are variables you can use in the render of policy messaging.
This includes success, failure, warning and description fields defined in a policy.

### Available Tokens
Use the `policy:info` command to identify which tokens are available in a policy
for use in the render.

```bash
$ drutiny policy:info fs:largeFiles
 ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Check         Large public files
 ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Description   Large static assets should ideally be housed in other services, e.g. Amazon S3
                (for files) or Youtube (for videos).
 ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Remediable    No
 ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Parameters    max_size:integer
                  Report files larger than this value measured in megabytes.
 ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Tokens        max_size:integer
                  Report files larger than this value measured in megabytes.
                issues:array
                  A list of files that reach the max file size.
                plural:string
                  This variable will contain an 's' if there is more than one issue found.
 ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Location      /mnt/drutiny/Policy/fsLargeFiles.policy.yml
 ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 ```

 You can see in the above example output, that `fs:largeFiles` contains three
 tokens: `_max_size`, `issues` and `plural`. These tokens are available to use as
 template variables when writting messaging for a policy:

 ```yaml
 failure: |
   Large public file{{plural}} found over {{max_size}}
   {{#issues}}
     - `{{ . }}`
   {{/issues}}
 ```

 These variables are rendered using [mustache templates](https://mustache.github.io/mustache.5.html).
 The messages are also parsed by a markdown parser when rendering out to HTML.
